So we're able to handle the user input and check it and at least we can validate it for being
empty,
however this is not enough because we can still enter some invalid data here, if I click enter,
we get not a number here.
The reason for that is that when we check the network tab, this request here, we see the global quote actually
is empty.
So we don't get an error if we have an invalid symbol but we get an empty global quote object and that
is simply something we need to check for,
we need to prevent basically.
Now if you had a different API, that would be giving you let's say a status code that is 404 when it
doesn't find something,
you could check the status code here in the first then block where you have access to status
and this will be a number and there, you could check if status is for example not equal to 200,
so if it is some error, then you could throw a new error here
and configure this however you want
and then it would automatically skip the next line and also skip this and go right into the catch block
where you could handle the error.
However this is not what's happening here because we get a 200 code here even for invalid symbols,
this is just how this API works,
we do have a 200 status code here but we know that we have an empty object here. So we can still handle
this error, here
before we extract the value, we can simply check whether global quote is an empty object or not.
So to be precise, we want to check if this property exists or not.
So we can check if and then we just copy that,
if this exists. Global quote will exist,
we know that, there is a global quote object but this will be empty,
so this does not exist and therefore the result of this will be undefined which will be treated as false.
So let's check for that,
so if this is not true, so if it is false, if it is undefined here, then we want to do something
and here, I will throw a new error invalid symbol.
Of course it could be a different error source too
but here I'll throw this error
and now if I reload and I open my console here and I enter some invalid symbol here, I actually get
that error being thrown here.
So now we can work with that error in the catch block and set this up as a central error handling place
and I simply want to show a user message here or an output whenever we have any error, instead
of the price.
So what can we do?
Well first of all, we can use state again and add an error property or whatever you want to name it
and this will be a string
and here, I want to set this error equal to error message. The error object here has a message property,
that is how the default error object in Javascript works and I'll extract that string message and
store it in my error property
and now we can output that down there.
So for this in a render function, I'll have my data content variable and as a default,
I assume I get a price,
so I'll just cut the content from down there and output this here.
However we might have an error,
so if this error is true-ish,
so if it is a string with any text in it basically, then I'll set data content equal to a paragraph where
I output this error,
so the message I store in this error property and then data content is set to either the price or the error message,
I'll set or I'll output data content down there between the div tags. So now with this, if I reload and I enter something
invalid here, I get invalid symbol down there and that is certainly better than just logging it to the
console which most users will never see.
Now obviously it would also be great to not show anything here if we have no price yet, so we can actually
change this a little bit and after checking for the error, I'll see if we have a fetched price
and only if we have a fetched price, I'll output it here and otherwise as a default setting, I'll have a
text here where I say please enter a symbol.
So now we have one extra case and that is now the default case which I see right from the start,
please enter a symbol. After I enter one,
I see the error if it's invalid or if it is valid,
we still see the error, right.
Well the reason for that is that we never clear our error.
We set it here in the catch block but we should of course get rid of it
if we make it past this if check,
so if we have a valid response.
So this error should then be null to clear it.
And now with this, if I reload, let's again try this, enter something invalid,
we get the error,
let's enter some valid symbol
and we do get
please enter a symbol again.
Well the reason for that simply is that I should of course output my paragraph here into data content,
sorry about that.
We of course need to set this text we want to output with the price to our variable data content here.
So now last try, it already updated here behind the scenes but let's try this again, invalid input and then a valid
symbol
and this looks pretty good.
So now we have different types of error checking in place
and this is of course also important to know as well as to know how to update your interface, your DOM
efficiently depending on which case currently is the case.